---
layout: post
title: Announcing SpoofMAC - Spoof your MAC address in Mac OS X
---

The quickest way to spoof your MAC address is to **[download SpoofMAC](https://github.com/feross/SpoofMAC) directly from GitHub.**

## What is SpoofMAC?

Something I've needed to do from time to time is **spoof my computer's MAC address**. This is useful for debugging network issues or temporarily getting onto the Stanford Wi-Fi network when my physical MAC address changes, such as when [Apple replaced my logic board](http://www.quora.com/Is-AppleCare-worth-the-$350/answer/Feross-Aboukhadijeh) (motherboard).

For the uninitiated, a **Media Access Control address** (MAC address) is "a unique identifier assigned to network interfaces for communications on the physical network segment". You can [read more on Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MAC_address).

Despite the fact that all network devices (laptops, iPhones, routers, etc.) have physical MAC addresses burned into the hardware, you can actually change (or spoof) your MAC address **completely in software**, and other network devices will only see your spoofed address.

## Other Solutions Sucked

I was disappointed with the Mac OS X offering in this area. None of the existing stuff worked well. The biggest annoyance with most of the solutions I found was that the Wi-Fi card (Airport) needs to be *manually* disassociated from any connected networks, in order for the change to be applied correctly. Doing this manually every time is annoying.

## My Solution

So, I made a Python script that lets you change your MAC address in one command. **[Check it out and download it from Github.](https://github.com/feross/SpoofMAC)** Improvements welcome!

I tested it on Lion 10.7, but should work on 10.6 and 10.5 with slight modifications.

## Usage

**Note:** Use `en0` for wired ethernet and `en1` for wireless. **From the terminal, run:**

`sudo python SpoofMAC.py INTERFACE MAC_ADDRESS`

**Example:** `sudo python SpoofMAC.py en1 12:34:56:78:90:ab`

## That's it!

Let me know in the comments if you find this useful.